In the last video we saw that we were having some problems with the binder around the chin also around
the belt buckle.
Let's take a look at seeing if we can fix those.
I'm going to come up here to the head control and we just hit our twice and as we move it around it
doesn't look too bad.
Here you can kind of see some stretching.
But if we choose the neck you can see we've got quite a bit of stretching there and that's not going
to work.
So let's see if we can work on that.
The first thing I'll do is go ahead and select the character and I'm going to come over here to the
object mode menu and choose wait paint.
And that should allow us to see the weights on the character and you can see this one down here is currently
selected.
We've got thigh one on the right.
If I scroll up and see if we can find Here's the head right here.
So this is what the influence of the head looks like.
Let me see if I can make this menu a little bit bigger.
Scroll that up.
I mean it's going to grab this and drag it down.
Just so we have a better list of our vertex groups.
So for each vertex group here we have a certain amount of weight or influence on the vertices of the
character.
The red color means that it's really influenced or almost all influenced by that bone.
And then as you move to green and blue it gets less and less.
So if we tap into edit mode here I'm going to hit the tab key.
Go into edit mode and I'm going to de-select everything here and with this this up with this head Virtex
a group selected I can click select to see what vertices are a part of that group.
So I'll hit select and there they are.
So we can see that there's quite a few vertices being influenced by the head bone that are actually
down here into the back and onto this piece of armor.
And I don't know that we want that.
In addition if we take a look at the at the neck Let me scroll all the way down here I think the neck
is right here.
I'll hit the aikido de-select select the neck vertex group and choose select and you can see that the
neck is influence way down here into the back and more onto the armor and way up here into the head.
And that's why it's influencing that chin because we have so much influence up into the head.
So what let's do is I'm going to go to the side view and the orthographic view here and I'll go ahead
and hit the Z key for wireframe and what we need to do is remove the influence of all these extras and
just select what we want for the head and the neck.
So let me begin with the head first I'll go up here to the head and I'll hit the aikido de-select I'll
hit Selecta over here to see that vertex group I'll come down here and click Remove to remove all those
vertices out of that vertex group.
Now I'm going to select just what I want to be in there so I'll hit the C key to enable the circle select
tool.
And I'm just going to click and drag all of these words CS in here.
So we only have the head vertices selected.
And now with the head vertex group still selected I'll click assign OK.
So now if we tab back out of edit mode and look at the White paint you can see that that influence is
completely and totally 100 percent on the head.
That's what we want.
So let's do that again for the neck we're when I come down here to the neck vertex group and I'll click
select and I'll remove all of these move.
Now I'm just going to select the vertices that we want so I'll press alt and click one of these edges
and then I want to press control and the plus key and expand this selection.
So it's just the neck.
And here we go.
Umunna tab back into here and I'll choose face mode.
And I just want to de-selected these faces I don't want it to influence the armer at all here.
All right there we go if I go back to Virtex mode you can see the vertices that are affected and then
I'll click assign.
All right.
And now if we go back to white paint mode you can see it's influencing only on the neck.
There's a little bit of overlap over here on the armor Let's see if that's going to be a problem.
So I'll go back to object mode.
I'll select this control and let's test it out that it's pulling a bit on that arm or I'd like it to
to not do that.
So let me go back to wait paint mode.
And let's go ahead and remove the vertices along there.
Hit the aikido de-select those and I'm just going to select these points right along here and let's
see how this works.
Something like that.
And then I'll hit remove.
All right.
Now let's go back to object mode like that control and let's move it around a bit.
Yes so now we get not much movement out of that arm or looks like there's still a little bit going on
but not too bad.
Yeah I think we're OK there.
And let's test the head the head as well seems to move OK.
And the jaw seems to be OK.
But take a look at the eyes.
Wow.
Let's work on the eyes now.
So I'm going to go ahead and go back to object mode and and select that I right here select one of those
eyes and I want to come up to the head bone and I want to make sure that it's 100 percent being influenced
by the head bone.
So I'll tab and edit mode.
The key select the head vertex group and click assign.
Now I want to come back down to the neck vertex group and hit remove to make sure it isn't influenced
by that.
So let's see now what happens when we go to pose mode and move the neck around.
Right.
That one eye's pretty well locked in place.
But now we need to do that for the right eye.
So select that I tab into edit mode select all the vertices.
Remove it from the neck and assign it to the head.
Now as we've been doing this.
Notice that the weight here has been at one has been at 100 percent.
Now we can adjust the weight to whatever value we want but for right now I think 100 percent is what
we need for these particular pieces.
All right.
So if I select that neck hit the Arki looking pretty good about the head yeah.
OK.
I think we got it.
So the weight once again on these items looks like
there's the neck
and there's the head.
So let's take a look at these other parts of the body like this belt buckle and the torso.
So what let's do is let's see what is influencing this particular buckle.
So to do that I'll go back and select the character.
Hit the tab key and I'm going to go ahead and go into wireframe and front view and orthographic view
here.
Now what we want to do is try and find the vertex groups that are affecting this particular belt buckles.
So I'm going to scroll all the way down here and let's first look at the hips right here and I'll click
select.
And here is what's being influenced by the hips.
Now if we tumble around we see that that particular buckle really isn't being affected by that at all.
But I'm thinking it needs to be I'm thinking this really should be held in place by the hips.
So what let's do is let's go ahead and select this object I'm going to hover over it.
Press the key hover over here and press the L key as well and select all of that and I'm going to go
ahead and assign these vertices to the hips vertex group so I'll just click a assign and we go.
So now we know it's assigned to where we needed to be.
But is it still being influenced by other vertex groups that we don't want it to be influenced by.
So let's take a look at the spine here.
I'll hit the select button and that's being influenced that's not being influenced by that.
OK.
So that's and in fact the spine bone that's a little too much.
We're going to need to take out some of this and maybe even take out some of that up here.
So OK we've taken a look at the hips and the spine.
Let's look at the chest here.
Click select.
There it is.
So you can see that even though the chest bone is way up here it's influencing these vertices here.
So what let's do is let's go ahead and select that again hit L and L and let's remove it from this vertex
groups or click Remove.
And now let's give this a try.
I go back to object mode click on this guy here and now let's see what happens.
Better now it's not being influenced by any of those.
It should be however influenced by this.
That's right.
So that's correct.
However we've got more influence happening on the belt.
So just quickly let's go ahead and take care of that.
Let's test the chest vertex group here.
I'll select that.
OK.
That looks pretty good.
Let's select the spine hit the achy to de-select and select that that I think is our problem.
We need to de-select all of these down here I don't think we want all of this area being affected by
the spine.
So what let's do is just once again hover over the belt hit the L key to select that and now want to
remove that from this vertex groups or click Remove.
And now if we go back to object mode hit that spine bone and rotate it.
Now we're getting better deformation there now.
We've still got more to do of course because we've got to remove all of this off of that as well.
But you can see the basic process.
So what I will do is go through and find specific parts of the character that I think are deforming
a little oddly and I'll go through the process of removing the problem areas from Virtex grooves that
should not be influencing it and making sure that it's being fully influenced by the bones that do need
to influence it.
There's one more thing I'd like to do before we're done with the rigging process and that's to turn
off the stretchy.
Right now if I choose one of the I.K. handles and move it and you can stretch the arms and the legs.
And that's really cool and everything but I don't think it's going to work with the way I want to animate
it.
I don't want to be accidentally stretching the arms and legs as I animate the character so I'm going
to press the end key and with that I.K. handle selected I'm going to scroll all the way down here and
this auto stretch I.K. I can take this all the way down to zero.
And now if I hit G and move around you can see the arm won't stretch beyond where it's supposed to the
I.K. handle will move out but the arm won't stretch.
So I just want to go through and do that for all of the I.K. handles on both the arms and the legs.
And that should take care of that.
There we go.
All right well I think we're about ready to begin animating I'm going to go through and do a little
more tweaks and make sure that all of the weights are the way we need them.
But after that I think we're pretty much ready to begin animating and I think we're just going to do
the basic animation cycles for a video game character.
The idle the run the jump and I have a war hammer and I might make a shield for this guy we'll see.
I'd like to have him look like the original drawing that we began with.
So maybe I'll bring those into and we'll parent those to his hands.